Israel's military escalation in Gaza has
come as pressure grows on the government
to secure the release of almost 240
hostages captured by Hamas among them
the German Israeli National sha Luke who
has been confirmed dead by Israel's
foreign Ministry in the last hour she
was among those kidnapped at a music
festival on October the 7th when Hamas
militant stormed across into Israeli
territory Shaunie Luke was last seen in
a video where she appeared to be
unconscious while being paraded through
the streets of Gaza in a pickup
truck DW political correspondent Leone
van Hamin is following this story Leone
what more can you tell us about
this well R luk first came out and
talked to the German news agency DPA and
told him that the Israeli military
informed her late Monday night of her
daughter's death and you said it the
Israeli foreign Ministry has now
confirmed that um Ric Luke also said
that the body of her 22-year-old
daughter has not been found yet but that
a splinter of her skull bone um was
located and that a DNA sample was taken
from it and tested and um she also said
that she believes that her daughter died
on October 7th during the terror attack
at the music festival in southern Israel
possibly by a shot in the head um and
she was you said it one of those
Festival go goers and Israeli German
dual citizen who had been living in Tel
Aviv um and for a long time Shan Luke's
family had assumed that she had been
severely injured but alive and in the
Gaza Strip and um they had been publicly
calling on the German government to
fight for her release and and that time
was running out and when four other
female hostages were relieved this had
given the family A little hope um just a
week ago but um this hope has now
obviously been dashed by the news of her
death Hamas is believed to be holding
several other Germans hostage what do we
know about them and if they're still in
hamas's
hands well we don't know much um you
said that Israel's military says that
almost 240 people were abducted abducted
by the islamist militant group Hamas and
brought to Gaza and among those several
German citizens the German citizen has
said that a low two-digit number of
German Israeli dual citizens are
believed to be still held in Gaza um the
relative relatives of those hostages um
have been calling on the German
government to do more and the news of
Shany Luke's death are very likely going
to increase that pressure DW political
correspondent Leon Von Hamin many
thanks Hamas militants massacred around
a tenth of the population of one kabot
in southern in Israel those who remained
have been evacuated to a resort on the
Dead Sea there around a thousand
survivors try to find ways of dealing
with their trauma and in many cases the
loss of their loved ones as DW's Rebecca
riters reports from
INB portraying the dead from a time
before their world fell
apart just one of the therapies helping
these people process their trauma at
this UPS Resort on the Dead
Sea it's a place of relative safety in a
country at War around a thousand
Israelis who escaped the massacre at
kabut beri were evacuated here where
they'll live for at least the next few
months and try to come to terms with
what happened yeah in 6 and a half in
the morning I'm this we heard a lot of
bombs and we woke up Ella benami recalls
the moment the ordal began
her parents soon texted her from their
home up the street they were in hiding
Hamas gunman killed more than 100 people
in Berry that day Ella feared her mom
and dad were among them something like
an hour later I saw a picture of them on
telegram with both terrorist they took
him it's not in Israel I guess it's in
Gaza two weeks later Ella found this
video on telegram showing her captured
mother filmed by
Hamas so looking for clues of where they
might have been taken she and her sister
went back to their childhood home why
why why why I can't even describe it it
was so hard even yesterday when I went
to
there I couldn't step on the ground
because on every piece of ground is so
body buies
and I couldn't think of
of of walking on there on there on the
world donations from across the country
have been pouring in for people who
escaped with only the clothes on their
back they have to tell it over and over
again Dina draw is one of a team of
psychotherapists stationed in the hotel
to help them she says the most important
thing is to get people talking how they
couldn't breathe how they have had no
food how were worried how they saw in
the WhatsApp uh group that people
are in in in a great in danger how they
escaped what did they
see um they have to repeat it over and
over until the story has a narrative it
it has a beginning middle and an ending
she says for Israelis this was an event
unlike anything in recent memory it's a
collective grief it's something we don't
see usually in Israel you have a terror
attack and a soldier is dead but here
because of the massive numbers we have a
collective uh grief and it's also a
strong thing of a community that they
going through it together going through
it together but each alone in their pain
there isn't a family that didn't
lost someone there isn't a family here
all the families lost someone and even
as a kibuts we are a big family together
and even I lost friends and neighbors
and everyone lost
someone the 7th of October was traumatic
for all
Israelis and even as the people from ber
try to heal it's clear their trauma will
be felt for
Generations one of the families torn
apart by hamas's attack on kibuts B is
the family of shaket haran shaked's
family home in Berry was found burned to
the ground as you can see here in
footage she gave us the whole family was
missing she says 11 members of her
family were kidnapped at gunpoint by
Hamas including her parents sister
brother-in-law and their three young
children two aunts and an elderly Uncle
three of her relatives and her uncle's
caretaker have since been found dead and
shaked believes the rest of the family
are being held hostage in
Gaza Shaka haran is with us now she
joins us from Central Israel Shaka thank
you so much for having the courage to
share your story with us you have given
us permission to share a photo collage
that shows your relatives including
those who are no longer with us may I
begin by asking when and how you learned
of their
deaths so
um after the massacre in the kibuts and
the attack of the terrorists we didn't
know anything we had no
information uh and as the days passed by
we started collecting more and more
pieces of information and the first um
the first indication we had is that all
the family has been kidnapped including
my father my uncle and my aunt and my
uncle's
caretaker um but eventually is the day
passed we received first the message
that the caretaker of my uncle was
murdered and recognized by his wife who
is 9 month
pregnant and um after that we received a
message that my uncle was murdered This
was um a week and a half ago and that
same day at night we received a message
about my father that he was also
murdered um and few days after this
about my aunt so they came very close uh
we were still mourning my father's death
and then we got the message about my
aunt um and about the rest of the family
members we we received um very um we we
received official information that they
are that they were taken to Gaza
alive essentially one surreal
heartbreaking moment after the next one
after the other um let's be clear about
this what exactly do you know about the
status of your other family members at
this
point as far as you know are they alive
are they alive is what I'm asking
essentially we what we know is that they
were taken alive we haven't received any
further
information for what we know Kamas has
not passed any information about who
it's holding hostage there's no third
party that received leas or the Red
Cross hasn't been allowed to to get to
the hostages to to get Aid to get
humanitarian Aid to the hostages so
Kamas is not really seeing any
information and not allowing any sort of
assistance for the hostages shaad is
Israel's Army says it has entered the
next phase of the war and is increasing
air strikes and ground incursions does
this fill you with hope or
horror it's not a question that I feel I
can answer it's a strategic political
question some say some say it's to get
the hostages back other say it's not
good I don't know it's it's a political
question there's no question about that
it is definitely a political question
but I think people watching you today
will wonder how how is she experiencing
this as political events on unfold in
real time you must have personal
feelings about this so I I have to tell
you that my personal feelings since day
one are between horror and hope um and
it it I don't think that this this um
move or that move makes it any better
and I think that you know I'm praying
that my family would be brought back
alive and my baby niece and my nephew um
that and and my cousin that are there
you know it's I think one of of the
channels that we are trying to um work
with is is the international pressure on
this spot because we understand they're
also working inside Israel but we
understand that Israel currently is in
the midst of the war and let's talk
let's talk about that let's talk about
the international pressure Hamas has
released a small number of hostages
including US citizens some of your
missing relatives have Austrian German
or Italian citizenship are you aware of
any of those governments being involved
in hostage
negotiations so um you know we had had
official um Declarations of Germany that
it is taking steps in order to care for
the for the German citizens there um I
don't know what this practically means
behind the scenes but officially Germany
has said these are German citizens and
it will work it will do whatever in the
power to bring them back but since then
we are already 23 days into this
situation and and I can really honestly
tell you that that I fear that every day
that goes by risks my family and risks
the babies that are there and the many
women and many children that are held
hostage and that's why we really really
hope that that that these governments
are doing whatever they can to bring
these people back and I can seriously
honestly tell you that I cannot imagine
what you're going through and I think
that I speak for hundreds of thousands
of viewers who are feeling the same way
what's keeping you
going the hope the hope that that I will
get to meet my family that I will hug my
small niece that we will meet them and
say that we did everything in our power
to bring them back the hope that they
are being treated human in a
humanitarian way I have you know it's
and and it's not all the time because
some of the time I'm in fear and Terror
of what they are going through and I
feel helpless and I feel that there is
not enough being done to bring them back
and that I'm failing them day after day
every day that passes and they are not
here I feel that I'm failing them them
and I feel that this should be a concern
of everyone right now to to bring these
people back I think this this type of
Terror is something that we cannot just
go by every day like it's you know a
Justified way of action well we will end
it there but your story uh and that of
dozens of others continues that is a
shock at Iran we thank you so very much
for sharing your story and wish you all
the best
thank you thank you very
much